It appears there's cupcakes in the
kitchen if you want some.
Thank you for that information.
Hi, welcome back.
So, So what I thought we'd do next,
but I'm having a little trouble getting
it prepared,
is let's reimplement our our calculator.
But let's start off with requirements and
then we'll see if we can get a closer.
And a better implementation based on
having those requirements and we can go
through that process that I've been
outlining and bring in the proper or
create the proper instruction files we we
think that we need.
In order to do this, but I'm trying to.
I created a branch and I'm looking to try
to get rid of the the old version in this
branch,
but it seems to be something that's
taking quite a while.
So let's say maybe we can start with the
requirements.
So a simple way I think of doing this
would be um.
Uh, create a requirements.
Uh, document.
or a calculator.
Uh.
Application.
Yeah, that's what I wanted to avoid.
I didn't wanna bleed in the.
The previous one, so let's.
So a new calculator application don't.
Use any existing.
Implementation.
You just want a nice clean requirements.
Oh yeah, kind of. Again,
just starting with a a well known domain,
we can get a requirements document pretty
easily.
Yeah, of course, returning, you know,
producing a a requirements document for a
a new application is obviously.
A much more intensive inquires,
much more collaboration.
Right.
So let's take a look at what it created.
So it has introduction.
This document specifies the requirements
for a desktop calculator application,
provides comprehensive mathematical
computation capabilities and an intuitive
graphical user interface.
So it should do basic arithmetic
operations,
scientific mathematical functions.
Advanced features like memory operations
and and calculator history and a
cross-platform design and compatibility.
Devine some acronyms that we know some
document conventions which use the shall,
should and may for the funding
requirements.
Overall description,
the calculator should be a standalone
desktop application that operates
independently without requiring Internet
connectivity or external dependencies
beyond the target operating system.
Provide standard arithmetic and memory,
calculation, history.
Results management,
keyboard and mouse input,
error handling and validation,
user classes and characteristics.
Primary users are general computer users.
Secondary users are students and
professionals.
Beginning to intermediate computer
literacy expected.
Operating environment are Windows,
Mac OS and Linux hardware minimums and
the display is a specific resolution.
System features.
So here we are defining what the the
basic arithmetic operations are,
functional requirements, input and output,
scientific notation.
Scientific functions.
Memory operations.
And looking at these so far,
they're all shells,
so it must do all these things.
External interface requirements,
a general UI, display requirements,
button layout.
OK,
here we're specifying a standard
calculator layout.
Hardware interface requirements.
Software interface requirements,
response time,
non-functional requirements, reliability,
throughput, usability.
Scalability.
Portability then technical requirements.
So it wants mathematical precision,
resources, accessibility,
and then finally the acceptance criteria,
which is all operations should produce
correct results.
Usability should be able to use it
without training.
It should start quickly compatibility
testing and security testing.
Any any questions on this or comments?
What was the prompt for that again?
That prompt was.
Create a requirements document for a new
calculator desktop application and then I
added don't use any of the existing
implementation format.
Ah, OK. Thank you.
So it's very simple and from that because
I think it's a well known domain.
It was able to produce, I think,
very accurate specifications for that,
but certainly a prop like this could be
used to help design any feature if you
give it enough context to where it knows
basically how to infer the detailed
requirements.
requirements from the more general
instructions.
So I just want to make a comment about
the fact that I'm using quite a lot of A
I in all of the work that we've done this
week.
And one of the reasons I do that is that
I've found that is and I think this
document is a good example of that it
will produce.
Output that is quite a bit more
comprehensive than what I would do if I
was doing it on my own.
So it's an easier job in my mind for me
to pare something down to just what I
need than try to build something up from
scratch and.
And worry that I'm I'm gonna be lifting,
leaving something out or forgetting
something.
So I tend to favor letting the A I at
least give me a first draft of something
so that I can then fine tune it to to do
you know exactly what I want. For example,
one of the things we might decide is an
optional thing that we don't want to take
on is the cost platform compatibility.
And then we can go back and say I I just
remove everything related to cross for
cross-platform for from the specification
and we would be able to start to pare it
down to something that we think is
realistic.
All right,
so it doesn't look my like what it's
hoping to do is to create a branch which
I'm on and it was going to get rid of a
lot of the executing implementation,
but that doesn't seem to be panning out.
I wonder.
So maybe we can just preface everything
by, you know,
referencing the second calculator.
So what we can do here is maybe rename
this to.
Calculator 2.
Requirements. All right,
So what would be our what would what
would be our next step?
Now that we have our requirements
document, we know what we need to build.
We have a detailed set of of of
implementations requirements that we need
to implement.
What would you? What would you?
What did you suggest we should do first?
Probably run an analysis against the
requirements in the existing project.
OK, yeah, So what I was is frustrating.
What I was hoping to do is clear out all
of the folders.
Let me do this. Let me see if it's.
Let's close the Visual Studio of Visual
Studio code and reopen it again.
John,
did did you have a branch without that
first calculator?
You could just switch back to that and
create a new from that.
Yeah, we could.
We could look for that too.
Maybe that's a good idea.
Uh.
So we would go back to the initial commit
and we edit.
We did a bunch of things related to.
But I don't want you to lose all the
instruction files that are useful.
Well, we can.
We can either drag those back in or
recreate them if we need to.
That that doesn't concern me too much
5.
because I we have those in the other
repository most of what we did.
So copy the commit ID.
And let's go here and say.
Rollback.
The repo to commit.
So something like this,
wouldn't that be better to do manually?
I'm just curious 'cause it's just as
simple a few clicks, right?
And you're not using any, uh,
GitHub copilot allowance.
Yeah, probably.
So I think this is interesting that it's
it feels like it's got two different
approaches.
So either a hard reset would completely
remove all commits or a revert which will
create new commits that will undo the
changes,
which is safer and it preserves the
history.
So it's asking us if we want to do a hard
reset. We can say no,
that we want to do a reset instead.
So we'll skip that command.
And.
We'll change the prop to.
Reset the repo.
Yeah, so maybe we just do it ourselves.
Yeah, that's what I would do. I mean,
we don't need to like do anything with
this branch.
We just switch back to to main and create
Oh, it's like.
a new one.
Anyway,
don't don't let me steer you the wrong
way.
I I don't wanna lose what you've done.
Yeah,
that's what I'm trying to do is I think
that it's if we say.
I get switch.
Um, get almost to get it up to date.
And.
We canceled out of that, so.
So do you know the command for a git
reset?
No, I don't. I will have to ask copilot.
Well,
I do everything visually in Visual Studio,
so I know where to right click.
Yes.
Well, so could we do that then?
You have Visual Studio looking at the
same repo.
None of those look like a promising.
Are are you trying to return to the
initial commit?
Yeah, but I want to keep the history.
Like keep all these other commits 'cause
you could you could just check out the
Well.
initial commit, right?
Yeah, that's what I was suggesting.
So I would switch to the original branch
So if you right if you right click
initial commit,
that we created this branch from.
I think you can just go to check out
there on the left.
This one detached.
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah.
Um.
Yeah, I don't like that detached.
Nothing should be detached.
I like this.
Is it suggesting several different ways
do I get revert?
Commits it new commits that undo those
previous. Yes, I don't think that's good.
Get reset with a new branch,
preserve the history in a backup.
But how about just creating a new branch
from the target commits?
I mean if you have the,
if you found found the commit that is
Let me just do it.
right from before you created this branch,
then we just switch to that.
Yeah, but this branch is, you know,
is like up here.
We've got a lot of things in there that
we don't want,
which we've already implemented. So I, I,
I, I'm,
I'm in favour of just going back to that
fresh start and creating a new.
A new branch and then we can rerun the
prompt that would get us the requirements.
Yeah, I'm fine with that.
Oh.
I don't want to do this.
I don't want to delete the main branch.
I just want to work on a new branch so.
No fresh start.
Well, doesn't seem like it did what we.
We're expecting.
It looks like the same.
Sure.
Oh,
did your initial commit already contain
some anything about the calculator?
Should have not, right?
Yeah,
it should be just the read me the license
and get ignores.
So the git checkout will create a new
branch from that commit.
That's the intention here.
Mhm.
Well, then why didn't it do it?
That's what I'm that's what I'm wondering.
Yeah.
Sometimes in VS Code you have to add
extra branches. Do you see?
Do you see this fresh start branch on the
graph on the left?
If you don't see,
sometimes you have to manually add the.
Oh.
If you click like,
that's sort of hard to describe where you
click, but um.
So I would just find that commit visually
on the left side,
right click that line and say create
branch from this commit.
Isn't that going to do it?
Yeah, that should work.
Say create branch from that one.
That should do it.
I just there we may have to type in a
name or something. There you go.
Let's ick a different name.
And I don't know if it automatically
switches to that branch or you
specifically have to say check out or
switch.
Did it switch to that branch?
Yeah, it did. Calculator 2.
OK, so all those things in there,
depending changes,
it brought with it from from what you had.
So if you undo those,
You know.
you're gonna be back to where where you
wanna be, I think.
What? What? No, what?
You know what I mean?
When you switch branches,
it tends to take the pending changes with
it as long as there are no conflicts.
So I think that's what we're seeing there.
So if you undo all those files,
then we are back to the beginning.
Unless I'm missing something.
OK,
those those look like empty folders maybe?
Well, maybe we can make them empty.
You wanna keep that one?
Now you can always go to the disk and
just delete everything we don't want.
So I know git is really weird about empty
folders, like it doesn't track them.
So when we we had some leftovers,
now we undid the files.
Right.
I don't think it deletes the folders for
you.
Maybe we need to go on the disk and just
clean it up.
It seems like I'm back where I was when I
started.
And let's bring up code again.
So it should have a bunch of changes.
Hmm.
OK.
Oh, seems to be happy.
Good. All right.
I think we're ready to go forward.
Let's clear our contexts.
And let's go ahead and create our
requirements stock.
Yeah.
So what was the suggestion for the next
step?
Oh,
are you asking about the previously
So.
suggested next step that Seth was saying
or or just any next step?
Or let's say it wasn't.
Yeah, well, we once we have requirements,
what do we want to do next?
Take the.
Create instructions around those
requirements or?
That makes sense to me.
Anybody else have an idea?
Oh,
we'll create the instruction files using
that.
That's the starter instruction creator.
So those are the instructions.
Right.
So here what we can we can do is maybe
create a.
Instruction file.
Or a.
I'm going to C-sharp application.
If we haven't specified.
In the requirements, any technology.
So this is in my mind a good requirements
document because it's not really telling
us how to do it,
it's telling us what it wants done. Well,
let me keep that.
Instruction file.
And let's see what we get out of that.
And again,
we're gonna do this a little bit,
a little bit vibey in the sense that
we're not gonna spend a whole lot of time
reviewing these instruction files,
but it's gonna be a much more.
Engineer approach because we're going to
be able to make sure that our
implementation conforms to these
instructions.
I'm still trying to figure out why some
of my windows and projects.
Have the delegate feature,
but some of them don't,
so it must be something that GitHub is.
Recognizing about the repository and it's
including some repositories,
but not all the repositories.
So here's our um.
Instruction file.
Uh, let's open it up.
Let's go ahead and Kee it.
Take a look at it.
I'm in preview.
And put in a new window so we can look at
it.
So here we could change.
We could change to this and say we want
it to be in.net 9.
Specify what versions of Windows that we
want to support and it's telling us to
use git for version control and we can
change that to Azure DevOps or or
whatever we like.
It's once a Windows Form app or a WPF app.
We might edit that and say we're just
looking for WPF.
The project name is what the solution
name is.
What the file structure should look like?
Or implementation guidelines,
a calculation engine.
A memory management components,
a calculation history components,
the user interface specifications for
Windows form,
and there should be a WF implementation
alternate.
The key features are input validation,
error handling, keyboard support,
a testing strategy.
Integration tests which we test the UI
integration with the calculation engine,
testing the keyboard input handling,
typing, testing clipboard operations,
testing the history functionality,
some performance tests on.
Complex expressions,
some package dependency definitions.
Some configuration for app settings,
user session settings management.
Building it and deploying it.
Some code quality using standards using
the Microsoft C# coding conventions using
async and wait for IO operations I
disposable where appropriate nullable
types.
What our documentation should look like?
The code analysis is recommended.
Security considerations would be input
security,
which would mean validating all our
inputs,
preventing code injections or expression
parsing, sanitizing the clipboard input,
unlimited expressive complexity.
To prevent denial of service attacks,
store user settings securely,
don't log sensitive calculation data,
implement secure memory handling,
then some accessibility features.
Testing with Windows Narrator.
Verify keyboard only operations.
Testing with high contrast nodes.
Our development phases,
the core functionality take us four weeks
to do that,
5 to 8 weeks to do the advanced features,
polishing and testing for I guess it's
not five weeks,
but additional week to four weeks.
On UI refinements and then a checklist to
get started.
And the like.
So that's not too bad.
So what are the things we want to change
about this then?
Oh well, we don't need Windows 10.
Alright.
If if you are trying to recreate the same
thing, then it's a WPF, not Windows forms.
No, well, I mean, you know,
this can be whatever we want it to be.
We could have it to be a web app.
We could be a so we could say one.
Do.
Um, we don't need.
Do do you guys have a preference?
Anybody else? Like what?
What are we trying to do?
Are we creating the same thing or a
different thing?
Same calculator, different kind of a.
I think a calculator seems fine to me.
What about the UI?
Should it be the same technology or
different technology?
I I don't.
I don't want to throw in keywords that I
I don't know.
don't fully understand because it's been
a while. I mean,
I know in those forums I've seen WPF,
there is now Maui and some cross-platform
technologies,
but I don't want to complicate things by
asking.
For something too complicated that none
of us know, you know what I mean.
Do like an electron. I don't know.
I don't know WPF so.
That's.
It does.
Uh.
No, we could try Maui.
Maui.
So so just take out the Windows,
Windows Forms and the WPF and just put in
Maui instead.
dot net Maui.
All right.
So was there anything else that we wanted
to?
Well, we don't need Windows 10.
I would take that out. If you're doing,
Yeah, I think I.
if you're doing Maui,
it should be the latest of.net. So.
net 9 or 10 that's coming out in November.
Um.
Yeah, let's use.
net 9 since I know I have that installed.
I know I don't have.
OK, 9 is fine.
That's the latest as of now.
Right.
Oh, let's see. Git should stay Git.
Yeah.
2022 is fine.
Maybe change the Oh yeah,
you already said you're gonna change the.
net to 9.
I just keep thinking you're gonna jump
into the instructions file and edit,
but instead you are gonna prompt and ask
it to edit for us, correct? OK.
Well,
that's correct because mostly because.
These choices that we're asking you to
make may affect other places in the in
That's that's right.
the in the document, right?
So by asking the A I to do the work,
it only not only proves that I'm I'm lazy,
but it also I think doesn't can can end
up with a better job.
Right.
So if we think that how to run that.
OK, so.
OK, yeah, that's a good start.
I I was gonna scroll through that
instructions file again to see what else
we want to change.
Sure.
So let's take a look at what it did
change,
and it looks like it only changed at the
beginning,
so we would have been pretty safe to
change this ourselves.
Oh no, it's not done yet.
I spoke too soon.
So here it's changed the this the
structure of of the directories.
Well, yeah,
because you changed the type of the app,
now the entry point is different,
so that makes sense.
Right, so.
Right.
So that you know that goes I think to my
point about.
Letting the the A I take a first stab at
making these modifications and then we
can adjust them afterwards if we think
they're not that they didn't quite hit
the mark.
Yeah, I I have to agree.
I gotta stop coding and start prompting.
OK.
I heard somebody that was somebody who
who consults with organisations about
bringing on AI and what he said is and
and this is in any context of AI,
said if you're not doing 100 query
prompts a day,
you're falling behind and so.
I I tend to to.
I tend to rather prompt the AI to do it
because I I I think I get a better result
most of the time and in a shorter amount
of time. So it's still.
Looks like it's made a bunch of
modifications down here.
Yeah, we can browse, browse through that,
see what's in there. OK,
So it's.
so that was taken out. That's fine.
It's removed the WF and replaced it with
Maui.
It's changed the main page structure.
In terms of what it looks like.
So this example's changed a bit what the
button grid looks like.
Main view model.
But pull this out and change that to be
the main page content.
OK, let's stop there for a second.
It says if windows do I need to think
about this?
Well we didn't take out the the the a
constraint that says this must be multi
multi platform or a cross-platform app so.
It's giving us essentially pseudo code
for targeting the the platform that we're
we're in.
Down here it changed what packages that
it thinks we need.
The testing packages that we need.
How the build deployment would work?
Yeah,
we'll we'll just leave all that alone.
I mean,
there is no way for a person to look at
this and just know what's right.
So it probably generated much better
Oh.
instructions than I could type up.
Yeah, I would tend to agree with that.
Yeah, the the question is, you know,
we we want to avoid.
Where we're blindly following the the the
the instructions or the created by the A
I I mean we do need to keep our our our
finger in the pie and and make sure that
we're comfortable with everything that
it's producing.
But in this case, you know,
we can go ahead and keep that is now
going back to.
Our file.
So is there anything else in here that we
think that we'd like to tackle?
Well,
how much time do we have to think about
this?
Well, we we have plenty of time.
Anything on the testing side that we'd
like to see?
I mean just by.
Any feature?
I was,
I was just gonna say scrolling through
Go ahead.
like this, you know,
nothing stands out as completely wrong,
so it's probably a good enough start for
a demo.
OK,
so are there any features of a calculator
that you always wish you had would have
but never seen?
Oh.
Well,
we could add something like if you press
the operator keys multiple times,
then it turns into a forever operator.
I don't know what the official
terminology is. You know,
if you do a plus,
let's say 1 + 1 is 2 if you do a 1 + + 1.
And you keep hitting enter,
it's going to be a 23456.
So it it's basically going to keep adding
or using the same operator on an enter.
I mean,
if you want to get complicate things,
So now what?
you know.
Well, why don't we,
why don't we kind of research the
terminology on on on the side and and
then.
Oh, OK. OK, good. Let's do that.
And then what I was gonna suggest is that
we would go through the the exercise to
So.
the point where we would get something
working and then we can see what it was,
what it's like to actually go back and
make a change like that to the
implementation and see how that goes.
Because, you know,
it's going to start out as Greenfield,
but it's going to quickly turn into
Evergreen and we want to,
we want that to to make sure that we it's
maintainable and we can actually move it
forward.
OK.
All right. So given that,
I think that we're probably in a pretty
good state here.
And also what I was going to say is that
that's actually going to require us to go
back here and say I need to add some
additional requirements down at the
bottom.
That defines what this new feature is
going to actually look like.
And so we want to update this,
then we want to percolate that back into
the calculator instructions,
and then we would then percolate that
into the implementation. So we have now.
A technical guide, I think,
in terms of how we want it to be
implemented.
So what do we where do we think we should
go next?
Not implementing.
That's a possibility.
What I was going to suggest is you know
we had those A I generation instructions
how to some things to to to basically
manage how the actual code is generated
as opposed to the specifics of the
implementation.
And bring that into the mix.
We could do that and then we could also
create the prompt files.
Right.
That's three.
I think I need to open it again.
And I researched that feature.
It has a name.
It's called constant feature.
OK.
Not a very good name,
but that's what it's called.
So what we can do here?
Because we can reach into our.
Oh,
I think This is why I couldn't do those
deletions.
Why is that?
I was just getting a prompt basically
allowing getting this prompt that says
you want VS code to be able to do
something and I think This is why it was
hanging and not actually accomplishing
what I was looking to do.
So, um, so going back to.
Or did that did it open up?
You don't see it being open.
There we go.
So we will look at this and say, OK,
we we we thought that maybe this one
would be worthwhile.
Do we want to try to go for slices in
terms of the implementation?
Um.
I hope.
I mean,
do we want to do slices right from the
beginning or did you want to create a
base base app and then add the slice?
What?
That's what I'm wondering.
Um.
Well,
let's see what the prompts prompts look
Because if because if there is no no app
yet, what is the meaning of a slice?
like.
I thought the slice would make more sense
once you have something to add to.
Or does it not matter?
Well, it's kind of a yeah.
So the idea with the slices would be,
you know,
you could actually start it with just the
requirements. We could say, OK,
use this requirement document and
generate slices to implement an
application that corresponds to those
requirements and then it would create a
bunch of features that it would add.
So it may do the initial calculator with
just the basic calculator functions,
but the whole thing would work right?
And then we could say OK,
add add feature #2 which adds the the
memory requirements to that and.
I mean, shouldn't shouldn't hurt, right?
So the first first slice is going to
establish your framework.
Essentially it's going to create the wire
Yeah, and I I actually right in the.
wire dot app.
Yes.
The other thing I've been thinking of is
that.
Where is my instruction instructions?
I don't think they're here.
It's instruction prompts.
This is something I've been.
I know it's here,
but it's I keep missing it.
It's it's there.
It's if you go to Scroll down a little
Problems.
bit 123455 under your highlighted 1.
This one instruction.
These are instructions for prompts that
It's right there.
create for for.
Oh, that's not the one. OK, sorry.
Yeah, well, let's just recreate it and.
2.
So and then since we have what I was
gonna suggest is maybe before we created
that instruction file,
but what we can do is retrofit it and and
back in. But so you create an instruction.
file to guide the creation of new
instruction files.
3.
So in in my mind,
I'm thinking when we're starting a new
project,
the first thing we wanna do is add these
kind of meta prompts so that we get a
consistent output.
So we get, you know,
we get the front matter that the that the
AI guidance suggests.
Here we have for the we'll get a new log
file that tells us,
you know what we asked it to do and what
it produced.
And to me,
these are handy because for two reasons.
One,
they contain all of the different
processors that we actually implemented.
So here's the one where we actually did
the vertical slice instructions.
And and within each one of those,
we get the conversation that gives us the
context of what what we did,
what the prompts were that we executed
and what the response back was for those
prompts.
So you get a bit of an audit trail as
well as this summary document that
essentially is something we can resume to.
It gives us the current state of the of
the prompt and allows us to actually
revisit that prompt and reset the context
up to the point that we.
We were the last working in it and.
I think that's also valuable and it's
kind of handy at times.
All right, so did it finish? No,
it's still working.
But we can.
I've not seen that before.
So it doesn't look like it's created a
file yet and it's.
So, and another reason is, you know,
if we notice in our project that we're
working in.
Um,
our instruction file or files here are
ended up in the root folder as opposed to
be going into the correct folder. Uh.
So that they'll they'll be recognized.
Interesting.
Notice it's a it's doing an AI
optimization version or it's specifying
But.
for that.
O What?
What is the definition of the correct
folder?
It needs to be under under GitHub that
you can put individual folders,
but anything under the dot GitHub folder
is it will recognize.
Uh uh that that file.
But you said it went to the wrong place.
That's what confused me.
Well, if you look at the.
So it went to the root.
Yeah, it went into the roots.
And how is it supposed to know where it
should go?
That's what this instruction files.
Oh.
Oh, OK, so it's in the instruction file,
but it didn't respect that.
Yeah, well, we didn't have one,
so it didn't have something to respect,
OK, now I get it so.
right. So that's why.
So that's why that's why I was suggesting
that if we're doing Greenfield blank
slate got a blank blank folder,
the first thing that we should do is
start to bring in these instruction files
that are that.
That define how this project should
operate so.
OK,
so now that we do have an instruction
file for instructions,
can we apply that to what we did before
Yes, we can. So that was, well,
what part did it create? Oh,
and fix it?
it's creating the conversation log.
And.
Here is the oh, it didn't create anything.
It didn't update anything 'cause we had
just told it to ask.
You catch that?
So this one should go much quicker since
it's in the context already.
It should be able to produce that file
pretty quick.
But let's go ahead and add this one to
our.
Instruction file.
List over here.
And then we'll paste that in.
Copy.
Oh, I'm in the wrong place.
The AI Assist instructions.
We want to get the instruction generation
instructions.
We should probably take the prompt file
instructions since we'll be creating some
prompts.
Um.
Yeah, so there's the new one.
And it's creating the log entries now,
so we see the 23rd.
Create instructions, the conversation.
And the.
Do we want to do the vertical slicing or
not?
I think we should.
All right.
So.
Business rules to.
Instructions.
And we need the one we just created.
Keep those changes.
OK.
Then we can say something like.
Applying.
The.
Create plan instructions to all
instruction file except.
Or.
Um.
The create instructions file, right?
We don't want to do it recursively.
We don't want to look at it.
And let's see what it does with that.
So it's reading the prompt file
instructions.
And now it's looking at the AI assisted
instructions.
So it's going to update the files.
And since we created a brand new
instruction file and due to the
nondeterministic nature,
it may actually had that that instruction
file might be different than the one that
actually created it.
So here we're working on the prompt file
instructions and it's replacing GitHub
username with with my GitHub username.
And it's updated the the.
From file creation,
the over added over instructions and
related documentation.
And down at the bottom.
It added an example.
But the one we're interested in,
we want to see what it gets when it grabs
the C# one.
What I was curious about,
is it going to put things in the right
folders?
Like this,
it likes the AI business rules to slice
as well.
All right, so it's done making changes.
It looks like it touched all of these
files and not that one.
Not that one.
Doesn't look at change anything there
though.
Which is what we were hoping for.
Oh,
the the the the front matter and things
is we'd want to do the same thing with
the AI assisted output instructions and
maybe we'll apply that just directly to
this one file.
Or maybe both of these?
Oh, I want to um.
AI assisted output instructions.
To.
The calculator requirements and.
The calculator instructions.
That sees that it's missing all of the
data that we have in the other files.
And there's one other file I think I we
should bring in.
And that is the.
Um, that's actually a prompt, I think.
And that is our check contests prompt.
So it's done with that work.
It's updated both of those files.
By adding the metadata.
So let's keep that and let's.
Uh.
And let's go ahead and create a new
folder.
Our instructions.
Yeah, and another one.
For prompts.
Then anything that ends with instructions.
We'll move into the instructions folder.
Anything that ends at a prompt.
This one here goes into the prompts
folder.
And then as we're adding these up,
we want to just double check that these.
These files are consistent and and don't
introduce any ambiguity or anything that
might confuse the AI.
So this will just take a minute to do.
Will the requirements go in the
instructions folder?
Um, well, that.
Uh.
Yeah,
I think that's not a bad idea either. Um.
That's where you have em.
Yeah, no,
that's I I the idea is is that you know
it doesn't have to follow the the the
naming convention that I'm using,
but by having them appear in the
instruction folder between that it gets
out into the context for all of the all
of the prompts that we execute and we
certainly want.
The requirements.
To be included in all of those prompts so
that it understands what it's what we're
asking it to try to accomplish and by
having it in in that folder then you know
OK.
anything that we generate from it,
it'll take those into that into
consideration.
And it'll give us a final summary here
about.
How things look.
File organization.
Some broken references overlapping scope.
So let's see what it found.
O Here's our next one.
O This is where we started.
Duplication or redundancy.
The file prompt dash file instructions
appears in both the root directory and
potentially.
So it should be.
So it looks like I missed one when I was
moving it around.
So this should go in the instruction
folder.
So interesting that it found the found
that it went to the wrong place.
That's a good catch.
Broken references and multiple files and
reference copilot instructions,
but it doesn't find those copilot
instructions,
so it's looking for copilot instructions
so that we should we should bring that in.
To make it consistent.
So here's Copilot instructions.
We'll copy that.
And we'll paste that in.
Business rules to vertical slices does
not exist.
So one word that is referenced.
AI vertical slice implementation
instructions does not exist,
so we know that that one is here.
Now one point I should make is that we're
copying these files into this new project,
so they are now diverged from the root
source for them,
and that may or may not be what you
intend.
Because you now have multiple copies of
the same instruction file,
but just in different places.
It's useful in this in this example
because we can just copy them into the
project and we can get and get started
from there,
but you may want to actually share them.
Among multiple projects and have a single
source of truths.
I know two ways that you can accomplish
that.
One is you can actually create a symlink
or from.
The.
Instruction files that are in the AI
assisted software developer project into
the instruction folder in this project
and then those files will be.
Available here, but their source,
but there ought to be one copy of them
back in the original source.
The the benefit of that approach would be
that anytime you make a core modification
to a a one of these instruction files in
back in the original source file.
Files back in the original source file.
All you need to do to update it here is
just do a pull of that repo and then
these will become updated.
The downside is that if you create the
symlink to the entire instruction folder
over here, you're gonna get them all.
You have to make sure that you're
managing your scope very carefully so
that you're not bringing in too much into
your contacts window when you're actually
executing a prompt.
The other option I've heard is that you
can build them into a Nugent package.
I haven't done this myself,
but then distribute that Nugent package
and then that can actually you can use
that to update your prompts in your
instructions.
Symlink.
Is that a Linux construct symbolic file?
It's a, it's a, it's a,
it's actually a um.
Windows too,
and actually Windows has a implementation
Hey.
of it as well.
O.
Do.
Yeah, so I what? So what gets? OK,
so we're sharing files across multiple
repos essentially, right?
That's correct.
And which one gets checked in?
Which one doesn't get checked in?
Or the let's say you put the file,
the actual content of the file in the
first repo. What's in the second repo?
It's a symbolic link to what?
It's just a link to.
It would just be a link to a different,
so you would manage them in two different
repos.
But I I was looking at the documentation
and looks like there's something called a
GitHub Copilot space.
Do you have any experience with that?
Because it seems like this would be.
Useful for doing the same sort of thing.
It's like a built in feature of copilot.
So.
Yeah, that I mean for this kind of thing.
I think that's really useful.
That could be pretty useful.
The problem with the spaces though,
is they don't have access to the repo.
OK.
So you would what you what you would it
wouldn't you wouldn't be actually using a.
You couldn't use a repo to actually do it
because I think it is a repo under the
covers.
So you would basically just Add all the
instruction files into the into spaces.
And then you could you could then use the
GitHub tool. I think it's at GitHub.
And from there you could well,
maybe it's a different, a different tool,
but you could get what I what I
understand is you can then use that to to
essentially pull all of those instruction
files into your context at that stage.
The.
You're saying the downside is that it
it's not like you can't manage it in a
repository?
Yeah, you can't.
You can't have them in a repository and
make reference to them inside of spaces.
If it's through the IDE,
you can do that through spaces itself
with GitHub if you were using GitHub as
your IDE.
Then you could have access to the repo
inside of spaces.
So that was my when I was researching it.
That was my understanding.
So when you included the space in Visual
Studio code.
No,
you wouldn't see any of the repos that
you would have in in spaces.
You would basically only see the repo
that you are are currently working in.
So let me let me throw in something else
here. I I don't think this is a new issue.
You're trying to share files across
multiple repos.
Essentially there's something called git
sub modules that people used to use for
All right.
that that purpose. Is that not a good one?
I haven't actually done any work with
that. It may may be a solution.
I've my recollection is that people were
kind of shying away from it because there
were some issues with it,
but those issues may have been resolved,
so it might be something worth
experimenting with.
OK. All right. Thank you.
All right, so.
We we brought in the GitHub and the
copilot instructions.
We brought in the AI vertical slicing
implementation instructions,
and then there's the vertical slicing
architecture instructions.
So let's go get that one.
Well, see that.
So I'll have to look at where it's
getting that idea.
And um.
Instruction for prompts.
And it's that one profile instructions.
Still in the wrong place, yeah.
Copy.
And paste.
So let's just do a search for this.
Let's drop that out.
Remove that requirement and then we have
another reference to it down here.
Let's see, do we have?
Business rules to vertical slices
instructions, but that's the AI version.
That's the one we brought over.
Yeah, that's the one here.
So let's go ahead and drop that out since
I believe there is a business rules.
The vertical slices in the instructions
we already have the A.
are below the AI.
That's in the source project you're
saying right down here, right that.
So what I'm saying is that you know the
thing that I did yesterday was I actually
Yeah.
created AI specific versions of these
files that are optimized to.
OK.
To reduce the context and since so this
they're they're essentially trying to do
So.
the same thing,
but in a slightly different way.
So you want to use the AI one 'cause it's
optimized.
Right, right, right.
Right.
So that was that was the thing I've been
thinking about. OK, I need to,
I need to focus on optimizing that
context because we're bringing a lot of
instruction files in here.
We wanna make sure that they we have the
room for them.
So that's what I undertook yesterday was
this idea to split them out and we should
basically just use these AI generate the
ones that are targeted towards AI.
So that takes care of that business role
one.
I think we got this AI vertical slicing
one brought that in.
Uh, the vertical slice architecture.
Instructions.
Vertical slice implementation.
So we're making reference to a.
So let's just drop that one then.
Uh, but it looks like it's.
Referenced a few places.
Oh.
It's kind of like a linting process where
we're having.
Um.
We're having the AI kind of do a a an
examination of those files.
So that was.
So that takes care of that issue.
Scope and priority conflicts,
the file location standards. Uh.
So I think technical, well, let's do this.
I think since we made a lot of changes in
the project,
it might be better us to to rerun this
and just to see how close we've gotten to
a a clean build of our.
Um.
Of our instruction files.
So.
Do you see value in this process that
we're going through?
So in my mind,
it's we just want to make sure that we're
not putting anything into our instruction
files that would be conflicting or
contradictory or.
And since we've got a new instruction
files, you know you know we we could see.
That there could be issues that we've
introduced that we don't that we need to
take care of as well.
So it's it's saying that it's like
analyzing lines one through 50.
Does that mean it's?
Only looking at the 1st 50 lines of each
instruction file like here on the on the
Um.
right.
Yeah, it it, it does it in chunks.
So you'll see it come back later
OK.
potentially and get the, you know,
from 50 to 100 or now I'm getting the
rest of the file.
You'll see those kinds of messages pop up.
OK.
Is is well.
So it looks like we're still having a
problem with this business role.
Maybe we missed a reference that we need
to fix.
So file location standards create
instructions and D specifies that
instruction files should be instruction
folder,
but the prompt file instruction is
currently in the root directory.
That must have cached. So what?
Maybe what we should do is clear the
context so it actually takes off.
And let's close all these down.
And try it one more time.
You do have two prompt file instructions.
One's a copy.
Oh, right, right.
Let's let me stop that since we already
know this. Thanks a good.
Thanks for pointing that out.
Let's clear our contacts and start it
again.
So, so as a man,
man is sitting in church and the usher
comes up and passes in the basket and he
he asked the usher,
would you rather have a 20, two 10s,
four fives or twenty ones?
And the other says says we don't care,
we're non denominational.
So yeah,
here you see that it's reading lines 30
to 80 now.
On the right there, what's a grip search?
Um.
Must be group search.
Well, grep is a is a command.
OK.
For finding text in files.
OK, I just don't not familiar with it.
Yeah, here.
Right. I mean,
I'd be actually surprised that it's
actually using grep because it grep's not
a Windows command, it's a Linux command.
But there are PowerShell commands that
are equivalent to it that it's likely
using.
And I really like this prompt.
Because.
We're, you know,
we're not telling it how to do the,
how to, how to actually evaluate.
It's just we're just saying we want to
see if there's any any of these kinds of
contradictions that we need to be to to
be aware of and letting the A I figure
out how to actually.
Accomplish that and give us that
information back and what I you know,
if you think about having to go through
these for all these files one at a time
and just trying to look at just the first
conflicting instruction section and
trying to reconcile.
All of that in your own mind would be a a
a pretty significant effort. You know,
while this is taking some, you know,
a few minutes to execute,
it certainly would take take me a lot
longer to do this if I had to do it by
hand.
So what is it? Conflicting instructions?
It's saying that there's a default model
specification in copilot instructions MD
that specifies cloud 3.5.
Recommended detail default for prompts.
AI assisted output instructions is open
AI and GPT in its own metadata.
Some several files consistently use
anthropic 3 fives so on it,
while others reference different models.
So that's something that we would want to
take a look at,
particularly in the Yambo front matter.
This is the this is the part I'm having
problems with in that there's no way to
tell in the model.
So I'm here recording in the in the front
matter what it's executing and it's not
clear to the AI what we're right,
why we're referencing that there.
It it could lead to inconsistent.
So standardize on one model and it's
saying 35 and I would say.
What is the latest?
Version of mod.
Sonic.
It's doing a Microsoft Docs search.
This kind of a prompt is it can be a
little bit.
Uh.
Problematic because if it lies on its own,
if its own internal data,
which it's not here,
it may come up with some old information
and give you erroneous output.
But it it's asking us if if it can go
ahead and search for that model
definition.
On the anthropic side.
And what I was looking for was the a ID.
And then we could do something like.
Update following reference.
No.
AI model references to.
Cods on it 4-5. All right,
let's go back and take a look at the
other things it found.
It says overall assessment is overly
redundant,
so we would probably take a look at that.
So here we can see it's actually making
an update.
This is our quite.
Alright,
so the first one is that I can flick the
instructions.
We're we're fixing that right now.
What's number one?
So #2 would be factual inconsistencies.
This one I think we can ignore.
Current date is the 23rd,
but it specifies this is in the metadata.
This might be something we can.
I can improve the prompt to try to ignore
those kinds of things.
Chat ID terminology is inconsistent.
Copilot says chat chat ID in prose,
but chat ID in metadata.
And it doesn't like the session and
session ID.
It's it's a.
Not a big deal.
Multiple files target AI assistance with
potential overlapping guidance.
And so here it wants clear terminology in
terms of.
Uh, technical incompatibilities.
Different versions.
And then communication gaps.
Here is the duplication and redundancy.
Multiplies repeat the same metadata
requirements. That's probably OK.
And redundant process descriptions.
So overall it it's OK.
Let's go ahead and keep the modifications.
It's it's implemented and it's a.
And what Yukasa could do is say if you're
concerned about a particular one and you
want to address it,
you could say go ahead and address the
duplication redundancy as a prompt and it
will go back and look at the this
duplication redundancy and then come up
with a a recommended solution to.
To address it.
So this is something I've done with this
repository in particular,
where we have all these instructions as
to run that check to make sure that
they're consistent,
and then if it produces an output that I
need to address,
then I could ask the AI to help me fix it.
But I think we'll just leave it for now
and I think it's good enough for us to
let's still.
getting out of report.
Alright.
Alright, so then let's clear this so.
How about we did this kind of earlier?
Uh, let's say uh, create.
Uh, plan.
to implement.
The calculator.
In vertical license.
So this will look at the requirements
that we defined,
which has I think a detailed list of
features that we want to implement.
And what this is going to try to do is
use the business rules to slices
instructions.
To to essentially identify,
get the business rules,
identify the use cases,
define the features,
design those vertical slices,
present that structural analysis and then
validate the completeness and communicate
it. So we should see it go through.
Those kinds of stuffs.
So here's the vertical slice
implementation instructions that it's
it's including.
The other thing I you might get from this
is a a sense that this is a fairly
sophisticated process that we're going
through and we're doing it, you know,
pretty quickly,
but it has a great deal of depth to it.
And so we're really giving, you know,
we're both giving.
Strong instructions to the AI in terms of
what we expecting it to produce and.
And we're getting very sophisticated
instructions or information out of it
that we can actually use as as a part of
the implementation.
And I think you know based on trying to
as we saw in the very first days we tried
to do this on the.
With basically no instructions at all and
just let it go on its own, you know,
it's certainly not going to have the
level of sophistication as this version
is just based on the fact that the the
demands that we're making on AI in terms
of the requirements that we want to see
in the.
Actual output.
And I think that's one of the main points
of, you know,
of AI assisted software development is
that we really want to focus a lot of
attention on these instruction files and
later we'll talk about how to take
advantage of chat modes to.
To further improve the process.
So now it's updating the log,
so it's created.
In our docs file, our plan.
So let's go take a look at that.
While it's updating the logs.
So here's the core calculator,
calculator features that that that it's
already identified earlier with the this
rules are.
And here is the vertical slice design,
basic number entry and display,
which is what we saw or what we
speculated might be the first thing that
it would take on.
This is the foundation story to implement.
Um.
So,
so complete number input functionality.
You can handle integers, decimal points,
negative numbers,
display the current input,
clear the and clear the BAS base
functionality.
But notice nothing in this is actually
calling it to actually do any
calculations.
Looks like just being able to enter.
Enter into the into the keyboard,
into the calculator and display the
display the results.
Can enter a single or multiple digit
number, can enter decimal numbers,
can enter an evergreen numbers,
negative numbers, update,
display updates correctly,
clear and black space work properly and
then it goes into slice 2.
We would add basic.
Arithmetic operations.
And then slice 3 is at the memory
functions.
Slice 4 is advanced operations,
so square root power percentage change.
Calculation history.
We're about halfway through the
implementation now.
Error handling and validation. Oh,
and then it is the implementation
strategy.
Uh,
so that was the the six slices that we're
gonna be implementing.
Technologystackrecommendations.
net Mediate are fluid validation.
Deendency injection and logging.
A console applications for simple testing
and demonstration. AWPF application for.
A rich experience. This is odd.
Blazer Webassembly. Oh, these are options.
It's saying React and TypeScript.
I think we were.
Maybe we need to be clearer about our.
MAUI implementation or is that Blazor?
OK.
So someplace in this process we've missed
out on the the Maui requirement.
So we can ask it to then to update this
plan to implement.
Um,
Maui instead of these options for testing.
I I think those those two can be used
together so you can have Blazer inside
Maui.
OK.
The structure validation rules for each
slice.
Before we implement a slice,
a feature boundary is clearly defined.
No direct dependencies on other features.
All required interfaces are identified.
Success criteria is testable.
File structure allows for vertical slice
patterns.
I think once we get the foundation slice
implemented,
we would be able to implement the other
slices independently of each other and
and we should be able to do multiple,
multiple lines of development and
actually move the project along.
Even quicker.
So we want us to review the plan and
approach, set up the project,
implement slice one,
then iterate on each slice to the testing
and it just talks about what the the
benefits of that plan are.
So let's do this.
Go back to the project.
And let's look where do we see the IT was
the C# calculator instructions.
I just want to ask it a question and let
me put the dot dot.
She shall calculate instructions,
but I want to look at the the plan.
Which was down here.
And we'll say that the CSR instructions.
Um.
Is that in uh?
I am.
And see what it thinks about that.
So it agrees that we're not being
specific enough in the plan and that
somehow this requirement was missed.
Reinforcing our need to want to review
these artifacts, yeah.
John,
if I mean in this case if we take out the
React and the console app and just change
WPF to Maui,
I think maybe it's going to be good
enough.
That's my guess.
It's doing a little bit more than that.
So here it's changed this.
To a.
net MAUI application and a rationale for
that.
It updated the package references in the
plan.
To use Maui.
It's changed the directory structure.
So this would make me question, OK,
how did we miss that? You know,
this big of a change in the initial
requirements?
And for that you can actually go back and
ask the AI.
You know,
how did you determine that this
particular output was created and why
didn't you recognize that this
instruction occurs?
And it will actually explain its logic
about how it actually made that
determination.
And you can use that explanation to go
back into the prompts and update the
prompts to be more persistent.
Specific or update the requirements
documentation to be more specific to make
sure that we actually get the output that
we write.
Because This is why I'm going through
this experiment is I wanna see where I'm
not being clear enough about my intent
and not getting what I want.
From that output.
So this is a would be an iterative
process in my mind of continually going
through and examining the output,
the the the plan,
making updates to the requirements and
the other documents so that I can produce
a clean plan and I know that all my other
documents then.
Are In Sync with that plan because that's
produced a plan that I agree with.
Right, so so it it changed the.
Yeah, the the plan itself.
Right.
But changing just the plan in my mind
isn't enough.
Because I don't.
I want to know what what went wrong in
the creation of the plan in the other
files that I've specified that would
cause this to occur.
So we could go that down that rabbit hole
if we want.
But um.
Let's go ahead and keep that.
All right,
so anything else on this so far?
How do you,
how do you feel this is progressing?
Are you comfortable with this?
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah, I mean.
Alright, so then.
So then.
Uh, looking at the plan.
We could tell it then to go ahead and.
Um, let's look at the top here.
Nice one.
But before they you do that.
One of the things that I've I wanted to
start to try to add to this process.
Is.
Showcases.
I'm sure you're all familiar with
showcasing the the work that you're doing,
so it would be really helpful if the plan
included the instructions for showcasing
that particular slice.
So we could then say add add to the plan.
Instructions.
Or showcasing.
This each slice.
To stakeholders.
And this was really helpful when I was
finishing up on, you know,
I I I got into this just the end of
implementing the second iteration of this
and it was really helpful in terms of
verifying that it that you know you could
actually demonstrate and it would drive.
It would drive the AI towards producing
something that was demonstratable because
it needed to produce instructions to
actually meet those requirements.
So let's go ahead and see if we can
update the plan and and and include those
showcase instructions and see what it
looks like.
Well,
this didn't do exactly what I was asking
or what I was expecting. I kind of didn't.
I obviously asked for it.
It looks like it's gonna put all of these
at the very end of the file,
but I was thinking it should belong.
In with the slice,
so it may be at the very right either
before the success criteria or maybe
after the success criteria would be the
instructions for actually showing off
that particular feature.
Maybe because the prompt you forgot to
put each slice,
so it just kinda interpreted it.
Right,
so I said add the to the plan
instructions for showcasing.
So I didn't say each slice it it
responded with adding instruction for
showcasing each vertical slice.
So I interpreted that as being.
With the slice,
but I guess goes to show us that you know
we need to be more persistent.
But you can see all it all we're really
More specific.
doing is telling it to move the showcase
piece someplace else because here it has,
you know, slice one showcase.
What the demonstrate taste,
what the actual script we should use in
order to showcase it,
what the the functional demo should look
like, enter single digits, show etcetera,
enter decimal numbers and demonstrate
Mm.
negative number handling.
How did the clear function works?
And then you can attempt invalid inputs.
You can show it running on the Windows
desktop,
show it on an Android emulator device,
or highlight and highlight the consistent
behavior across the platform.
You can also showcase the technical
highlights of the vertical slice
architecture,
demonstrate the unit tester passing,
do a quick code walkthrough of the
command handler pattern.
Successment results stakeholders can
successfully enter numbers,
platform differences.
So this is a pretty decent definition of.
Uh uh, the showcase.
Here's the second slice showcase.
Now we're doing showcasing the the
multiplication pieces.
And what the?
Here's the memory functions,
and so it's telling us how to how to
actually do this.
And I think from this you can see that it
would be pretty easy to produce a user's
guide on how to use the calculator.
And it would follow this these
instructions pretty well.
5 the complete calculator experience.
And then the.
Production ready where we're
demonstrating error handling, edge cases,
the complete feature integration,
product readiness, performance metrics,
test coverage, platform deployments.
Et cetera.
So I think that's that's a pretty good
start.
I mean that's I think pretty
comprehensive.
I think that if we can actually get
something implemented that that if it
conforms these instruction files that
we've created,
we should be have a have a pretty good
chance of actually being successful so.
All right,
so tomorrow let's start running.
Let's implementing slices. How's that?
Sounds good.
Alrighty, see you tomorrow.
Yep, see.
Bye.
Thank you.